crates/guacr-rdp/docs/README.md, before:

# guacr-rdp - RDP Protocol Handler

Production-ready RDP handler with advanced rendering optimizations and 60 FPS performance.

## Status

✅ **Production Ready** - Complete implementation with rendering optimizations (Phases 1-4)

## Performance Improvements

| Metric | Before | After | Improvement |
|--------|--------|-------|-------------|
| Frame Rate | 30 FPS | 60 FPS | 2x faster |
| Bandwidth (typing) | 200KB | 0.5KB | 99.75% reduction |
| Bandwidth (scrolling) | 200KB | 2-20KB | 90-99% reduction |
| CPU (typing) | 30ms | 0.5ms | 98% reduction |
| CPU (scrolling) | 30ms | 0.5-4ms | 87-98% reduction |
| Latency (typing) | 35ms | 3ms | 91% faster |
| Latency (scrolling) | 35ms | 2-6ms | 83-93% faster |
| Resize | Not supported | 2-5s reconnect | Seamless UX |

## Architecture

```
RDP Server
    ↓ TCP
IronRdpSession (ironrdp 0.13)
    ├── Fast-Path PDU Parser → Bitmap Updates → BGR→RGBA (SIMD) → FrameBuffer
    ├── TPKT/MCS Parser → Channel Data (CLIPRDR, DISP, RDPGFX, AUDIO)
    ├── Input Handler ← Guacamole Protocol ← Client
    └── Graphics Updates → Hardware Encoder → Binary Protocol → Client
```

## Implemented Optimizations

### Phase 1: Quick Wins
- 60 FPS rendering (separate event/render timers)
- Sync instructions for frame timing
- Fixed stream ID for content replacement

### Phase 2: Dirty Region Tracking
- Uses FreeRDP's built-in invalid rect tracking
- Smart rendering (<30% = partial, >30% = full)
- Zero overhead (FreeRDP tracks automatically)

### Phase 3: Scroll/Copy Detection
- Row hash matching algorithm
- Copy instruction optimization for scrolling
- Frames are never dropped (sync flow control throttles without skipping)

### Phase 4: Dynamic Resize
- Three resize methods: none, reconnect, display-update
- Reconnect method production-ready (2-5s)
- Display Update framework in place

## Core Features

### Protocol Support
- Full RDP connection lifecycle
- Fast-Path bitmap update parsing
- TPKT/MCS channel support framework
- Graphics update processing with SIMD BGR→RGBA conversion
- Alpha channel fix (SIMD-optimized, 16-26x faster than naive approach)
- Input event handling (keyboard/mouse)
- Channel management (CLIPRDR, DISP, RDPGFX, AUDIO)

### Hardware Encoding (Framework)
- NVENC (NVIDIA) - framework ready
- QuickSync (Intel) - framework ready
- VideoToolbox (macOS) - framework ready
- VAAPI (Linux) - framework ready
- Software fallback (JPEG) - implemented
- Automatic encoder selection with graceful fallback

### Input Handling
- X11 keysym to RDP scancode conversion
- Mouse event conversion (buttons, scroll, coordinates)
- Extended key detection

### Channel Handling
- **CLIPRDR** - Clipboard redirection (client ↔ server)
- **DISP** - Dynamic resize
- **RDPGFX** - Hardware acceleration framework
- **AUDIO** - Audio redirection framework

## Configuration

```rust
pub struct RdpConfig {
    pub hostname: String,
    pub port: u16,                    // Default: 3389
    pub username: String,
    pub password: String,
    pub width: u32,                   // Default: 1920
    pub height: u32,                  // Default: 1080
    pub security_mode: String,        // "any", "rdp", "tls", "nla"
    pub domain: Option<String>,
    pub ignore_cert: bool,
    pub resize_method: ResizeMethod,  // "none", "reconnect", "display-update"
    pub clipboard_buffer_size: usize, // 256KB - 50MB
    pub disable_copy: bool,           // Block server→client clipboard
    pub disable_paste: bool,          // Block client→server clipboard
}

pub enum ResizeMethod {
    None,           // No resize support (default)
    Reconnect,      // Reconnect on resize (2-5s, works with all servers)
    DisplayUpdate,  // Display Update channel (seamless, RDP 8.1+, framework ready)
}
```

## Example Usage

### Basic Connection

```rust
use guacr_rdp::{RdpHandler, RdpConfig};
use std::collections::HashMap;

let mut params = HashMap::new();
params.insert("hostname".to_string(), "windows-server.example.com".to_string());
params.insert("port".to_string(), "3389".to_string());
params.insert("username".to_string(), "Administrator".to_string());
params.insert("password".to_string(), "password123".to_string());
params.insert("width".to_string(), "1920".to_string());
params.insert("height".to_string(), "1080".to_string());
params.insert("security-mode".to_string(), "nla".to_string());
params.insert("ignore-certificate".to_string(), "true".to_string());

let handler = RdpHandler::with_defaults();
handler.connect(params, to_client, from_client).await?;
```

### With Resize Support

```rust
params.insert("resize-method".to_string(), "reconnect".to_string());
```

### With Clipboard Control

```rust
params.insert("clipboard-buffer-size".to_string(), "1048576".to_string()); // 1MB
params.insert("disable-copy".to_string(), "false".to_string());
params.insert("disable-paste".to_string(), "false".to_string());
```

### Performance Tuning

```rust
// Disable visual effects for better performance
params.insert("enable-wallpaper".to_string(), "false".to_string());
params.insert("enable-theming".to_string(), "false".to_string());
params.insert("enable-font-smoothing".to_string(), "true".to_string());
params.insert("enable-desktop-composition".to_string(), "false".to_string());
params.insert("enable-full-window-drag".to_string(), "false".to_string());
params.insert("enable-menu-animations".to_string(), "false".to_string());
```

## SFTP Integration (Optional)

RDP handler supports optional SFTP file transfer over SSH tunnel.

### Configuration

```rust
// Enable SFTP
params.insert("enableSftp".to_string(), "true".to_string());
params.insert("sftphostname".to_string(), "server.example.com".to_string());
params.insert("sftpusername".to_string(), "user".to_string());
params.insert("sftppassword".to_string(), "pass".to_string());
params.insert("sftpport".to_string(), "22".to_string()); // Optional
```

### Security

- Same authentication as main connection
- Same path restrictions as standalone SFTP
- Same file size limits
- SFTP failures don't terminate main session

## Performance (4K @ 60 FPS)

### Memory Usage
- **Buffer pool**: 264MB (8 buffers × 33MB)
- **Framebuffer**: 33MB
- **Encoder state**: ~10MB
- **Total**: ~300MB per connection

### CPU Usage
- **With hardware encoding**: ~20% CPU (target)
- **Without hardware encoding**: ~60% CPU (JPEG)

### Bandwidth
- **With H.264 hardware encoding**: ~20-30 Mbps
- **With JPEG encoding**: ~50-100 Mbps

## Clipboard Management

KCM-inspired improvements:
- Configurable buffer size (256KB - 50MB)
- Copy/paste disable flags for security
- Proper memory management (Arc<Mutex<Vec<u8>>>)
- Validation with clamping to valid ranges

## Protocol Support Matrix

- ✅ Fast-Path bitmap updates
- ✅ TPKT/MCS channels
- ✅ Keyboard input (X11 keysym → RDP scancode)
- ✅ Mouse input (Guacamole → RDP pointer events)
- ✅ Clipboard (CLIPRDR channel)
- ✅ Dynamic resize (DISP channel)
- ⚠️ RDPGFX (framework ready, needs hardware encoder integration)
- ⚠️ Audio (framework ready)
- ✅ SFTP file transfer (optional, via SSH tunnel)

## Zero-Copy Optimizations

- Buffer pooling (`BufferPool`)
- Binary protocol encoding (`BinaryEncoder`)
- SIMD pixel conversion (BGR→RGBA)
- Zero-copy `Bytes` usage throughout
- Efficient dirty region tracking

## Key Files

- `src/handler.rs` - Main handler (consolidated)
- `src/framebuffer.rs` - Framebuffer management
- `src/input_handler.rs` - Input conversion
- `src/channel_handler.rs` - Channel management
- `src/clipboard.rs` - Clipboard handling
- `src/simd.rs` - SIMD pixel conversion
- `src/sftp_integration.rs` - SFTP integration (optional)

## Testing

```bash
# Unit tests
cargo test -p guacr-rdp

# Integration tests (requires Docker)
make docker-up
make test-rdp

# With SFTP feature
cargo test -p guacr-rdp --features sftp
```

## Future Enhancements

1. Complete hardware encoder implementations (NVENC, QuickSync, etc.)
2. Complete RDPGFX channel integration
3. Complete audio channel implementation
4. Add compression support (RLE, etc.)

## Troubleshooting

### High CPU Usage

1. Enable hardware encoding (when available)
2. Increase buffer pool size (reduces allocations)
3. Use binary protocol (reduces encoding overhead)
4. Disable visual effects on Windows server

### High Memory Usage

Reduce buffer pool size:
```rust
// In config
buffer_pool_size: 4  // 132MB instead of 264MB
```

### Bandwidth Issues

1. Enable binary protocol (25-50% reduction)
2. Enable hardware encoding (better compression)
3. Reduce target FPS (30 instead of 60)
4. Disable wallpaper and visual effects

### Connection Failures

Check security mode:
```rust
// Try different security modes
params.insert("security-mode".to_string(), "any".to_string());
params.insert("ignore-certificate".to_string(), "true".to_string());
```

## References

- ironrdp: https://github.com/Devolutions/IronRDP
- Guacamole Protocol: See [docs/concepts/GUACAMOLE_PROTOCOL.md](../concepts/GUACAMOLE_PROTOCOL.md)
- SFTP Implementation: See [guacr-sftp.md](guacr-sftp.md)
- Zero-Copy: See [docs/concepts/ZERO_COPY.md](../concepts/ZERO_COPY.md)

Commit message:

feat(rdp,rbi,channel): RDP drive redirection, RBI session conflict detection, guacd drain-mode teardown
  - Add drive redirection to RDP handler (enable-drive, drive-path,
    drive-name,
    disable-download, disable-upload) with RestrictedRdpdrBackend for
    access control
  - Detect PROFILE_IN_USE on RBI connect and return
    STATUS_RESOURCE_CONFLICT with
    actionable error message to the client
  - Replace hardcoded 500ms guacd teardown sleep with drain mode:
    discard inbound
    guacd data after WebRTC close and wait for guacd EOF (2s timeout
    with force-close)

crates/guacr-rdp/docs/README.md, after:

# guacr-rdp - RDP Protocol Handler

Production-ready RDP handler with advanced rendering optimizations and 60 FPS performance.

## Status

✅ **Production Ready** - Complete implementation with rendering optimizations (Phases 1-4)

## Performance Improvements

| Metric | Before | After | Improvement |
|--------|--------|-------|-------------|
| Frame Rate | 30 FPS | 60 FPS | 2x faster |
| Bandwidth (typing) | 200KB | 0.5KB | 99.75% reduction |
| Bandwidth (scrolling) | 200KB | 2-20KB | 90-99% reduction |
| CPU (typing) | 30ms | 0.5ms | 98% reduction |
| CPU (scrolling) | 30ms | 0.5-4ms | 87-98% reduction |
| Latency (typing) | 35ms | 3ms | 91% faster |
| Latency (scrolling) | 35ms | 2-6ms | 83-93% faster |
| Resize | Not supported | 2-5s reconnect | Seamless UX |

## Architecture

```
RDP Server
    ↓ TCP
IronRdpSession (ironrdp 0.13)
    ├── Fast-Path PDU Parser → Bitmap Updates → BGR→RGBA (SIMD) → FrameBuffer
    ├── TPKT/MCS Parser → Channel Data (CLIPRDR, DISP, RDPGFX, AUDIO)
    ├── Input Handler ← Guacamole Protocol ← Client
    └── Graphics Updates → Hardware Encoder → Binary Protocol → Client
```

## Implemented Optimizations

### Phase 1: Quick Wins
- 60 FPS rendering (separate event/render timers)
- Sync instructions for frame timing
- Fixed stream ID for content replacement

### Phase 2: Dirty Region Tracking
- Uses FreeRDP's built-in invalid rect tracking
- Smart rendering (<30% = partial, >30% = full)
- Zero overhead (FreeRDP tracks automatically)

### Phase 3: Scroll/Copy Detection
- Row hash matching algorithm
- Copy instruction optimization for scrolling
- Frames are never dropped (sync flow control throttles without skipping)

### Phase 4: Dynamic Resize
- Three resize methods: none, reconnect, display-update
- Reconnect method production-ready (2-5s)
- Display Update framework in place

## Core Features

### Protocol Support
- Full RDP connection lifecycle
- Fast-Path bitmap update parsing
- TPKT/MCS channel support framework
- Graphics update processing with SIMD BGR→RGBA conversion
- Alpha channel fix (SIMD-optimized, 16-26x faster than naive approach)
- Input event handling (keyboard/mouse)
- Channel management (CLIPRDR, DISP, RDPGFX, AUDIO)

### Hardware Encoding (Framework)
- NVENC (NVIDIA) - framework ready
- QuickSync (Intel) - framework ready
- VideoToolbox (macOS) - framework ready
- VAAPI (Linux) - framework ready
- Software fallback (JPEG) - implemented
- Automatic encoder selection with graceful fallback

### Input Handling
- X11 keysym to RDP scancode conversion
- Mouse event conversion (buttons, scroll, coordinates)
- Extended key detection

### Channel Handling
- **CLIPRDR** - Clipboard redirection (client ↔ server)
- **DISP** - Dynamic resize
- **RDPGFX** - Hardware acceleration framework
- **AUDIO** - Audio redirection framework

## Configuration

```rust
pub struct RdpConfig {
    pub hostname: String,
    pub port: u16,                    // Default: 3389
    pub username: String,
    pub password: String,
    pub width: u32,                   // Default: 1920
    pub height: u32,                  // Default: 1080
    pub security_mode: String,        // "any", "rdp", "tls", "nla"
    pub domain: Option<String>,
    pub ignore_cert: bool,
    pub resize_method: ResizeMethod,  // "none", "reconnect", "display-update"
    pub clipboard_buffer_size: usize, // 256KB - 50MB
    pub disable_copy: bool,           // Block server→client clipboard
    pub disable_paste: bool,          // Block client→server clipboard
}

pub enum ResizeMethod {
    None,           // No resize support (default)
    Reconnect,      // Reconnect on resize (2-5s, works with all servers)
    DisplayUpdate,  // Display Update channel (seamless, RDP 8.1+, framework ready)
}
```

## Example Usage

### Basic Connection

```rust
use guacr_rdp::{RdpHandler, RdpConfig};
use std::collections::HashMap;

let mut params = HashMap::new();
params.insert("hostname".to_string(), "windows-server.example.com".to_string());
params.insert("port".to_string(), "3389".to_string());
params.insert("username".to_string(), "Administrator".to_string());
params.insert("password".to_string(), "password123".to_string());
params.insert("width".to_string(), "1920".to_string());
params.insert("height".to_string(), "1080".to_string());
params.insert("security-mode".to_string(), "nla".to_string());
params.insert("ignore-certificate".to_string(), "true".to_string());

let handler = RdpHandler::with_defaults();
handler.connect(params, to_client, from_client).await?;
```

### With Resize Support

```rust
params.insert("resize-method".to_string(), "reconnect".to_string());
```

### With Clipboard Control

```rust
params.insert("clipboard-buffer-size".to_string(), "1048576".to_string()); // 1MB
params.insert("disable-copy".to_string(), "false".to_string());
params.insert("disable-paste".to_string(), "false".to_string());
```

### Performance Tuning

```rust
// Disable visual effects for better performance
params.insert("enable-wallpaper".to_string(), "false".to_string());
params.insert("enable-theming".to_string(), "false".to_string());
params.insert("enable-font-smoothing".to_string(), "true".to_string());
params.insert("enable-desktop-composition".to_string(), "false".to_string());
params.insert("enable-full-window-drag".to_string(), "false".to_string());
params.insert("enable-menu-animations".to_string(), "false".to_string());
```

## SFTP Integration (Optional)

RDP handler supports optional SFTP file transfer over SSH tunnel.

### Configuration

```rust
// Enable SFTP
params.insert("enableSftp".to_string(), "true".to_string());
params.insert("sftphostname".to_string(), "server.example.com".to_string());
params.insert("sftpusername".to_string(), "user".to_string());
params.insert("sftppassword".to_string(), "pass".to_string());
params.insert("sftpport".to_string(), "22".to_string()); // Optional
```

### Security

- Same authentication as main connection
- Same path restrictions as standalone SFTP
- Same file size limits
- SFTP failures don't terminate main session

## Performance (4K @ 60 FPS)

### Memory Usage
- **Buffer pool**: 264MB (8 buffers × 33MB)
- **Framebuffer**: 33MB
- **Encoder state**: ~10MB
- **Total**: ~300MB per connection

### CPU Usage
- **With hardware encoding**: ~20% CPU (target)
- **Without hardware encoding**: ~60% CPU (JPEG)

### Bandwidth
- **With H.264 hardware encoding**: ~20-30 Mbps
- **With JPEG encoding**: ~50-100 Mbps

## Clipboard Management

KCM-inspired improvements:
- Configurable buffer size (256KB - 50MB)
- Copy/paste disable flags for security
- Proper memory management (Arc<Mutex<Vec<u8>>>)
- Validation with clamping to valid ranges

## Protocol Support Matrix

- ✅ Fast-Path bitmap updates
- ✅ TPKT/MCS channels
- ✅ Keyboard input (X11 keysym → RDP scancode)
- ✅ Mouse input (Guacamole → RDP pointer events)
- ✅ Clipboard (CLIPRDR channel)
- ✅ Dynamic resize (DISP channel)
- ⚠️ RDPGFX (framework ready, needs hardware encoder integration)
- ⚠️ Audio (framework ready)
- ✅ SFTP file transfer (optional, via SSH tunnel)

## Zero-Copy Optimizations

- Buffer pooling (`BufferPool`)
- Binary protocol encoding (`BinaryEncoder`)
- SIMD pixel conversion (BGR→RGBA)
- Zero-copy `Bytes` usage throughout
- Efficient dirty region tracking

## Key Files

- `src/handler.rs` - Main handler (consolidated)
- `src/framebuffer.rs` - Framebuffer management
- `src/input_handler.rs` - Input conversion
- `src/channel_handler.rs` - Channel management
- `src/clipboard.rs` - Clipboard handling
- `src/simd.rs` - SIMD pixel conversion
- `src/sftp_integration.rs` - SFTP integration (optional)

## Testing

```bash
# Unit tests
cargo test -p guacr-rdp

# Integration tests (requires Docker)
make docker-up
make test-rdp

# With SFTP feature
cargo test -p guacr-rdp --features sftp
```

## Future Enhancements

1. Complete hardware encoder implementations (NVENC, QuickSync, etc.)
2. Complete RDPGFX channel integration
3. Complete audio channel implementation
4. Add RDP bulk compression (`compression_type` in `connector::Config` — already wired in as `None`).
5. RemoteApp support (`alternate_shell` / `work_dir`) — launch a specific application instead of a full
   desktop. The IronRDP `connector::Config` fields are already wired in (set to empty string today).
   Plumbing needed: expose `alternate-shell` and `work-dir` as optional connection params, pass through
   to `build_config()`. PAM use case: give a privileged user access to a single admin tool on a server
   without granting full desktop access.
6. Certificate validation — `ignore_cert` and `cert_fingerprint` fields exist in `HandlerSettings` and
   are parsed from connection params, but TLS validation is not yet enforced. Currently all certs are
   accepted. Wire these into the TLS connector configuration.
7. Connection broker / load balancing — `load_balance_info` field exists in `HandlerSettings` but is
   unused. RDP connection brokers use this token during the X.224 connect phase to route sessions to the
   right host in a farm.
8. Clipboard (CLIPRDR) — the `RdpClipboard` struct and channel handler framework are in place but
   clipboard data is not yet forwarded. Wire up the CLIPRDR channel send path (currently has a TODO at
   the point where clipboard content would be sent to the RDP server).
9. Read-only mode keyboard passthrough — currently blocks all keyboard input in read-only mode.
   Should allow Ctrl+C / Ctrl+Insert so users can still copy text while blocked from typing. Requires
   tracking modifier key state to detect copy shortcuts.
10. UDP multitransport / RDPUDP (`multitransport_flags` in `connector::Config` — already wired in as
    `None`). Enabling this allows RDP to use UDP for bulk data, reducing latency and improving throughput
    especially for graphics-heavy sessions.

## Troubleshooting

### High CPU Usage

1. Enable hardware encoding (when available)
2. Increase buffer pool size (reduces allocations)
3. Use binary protocol (reduces encoding overhead)
4. Disable visual effects on Windows server

### High Memory Usage

Reduce buffer pool size:
```rust
// In config
buffer_pool_size: 4  // 132MB instead of 264MB
```

### Bandwidth Issues

1. Enable binary protocol (25-50% reduction)
2. Enable hardware encoding (better compression)
3. Reduce target FPS (30 instead of 60)
4. Disable wallpaper and visual effects

### Connection Failures

Check security mode:
```rust
// Try different security modes
params.insert("security-mode".to_string(), "any".to_string());
params.insert("ignore-certificate".to_string(), "true".to_string());
```

## References

- ironrdp: https://github.com/Devolutions/IronRDP
- Guacamole Protocol: See [docs/concepts/GUACAMOLE_PROTOCOL.md](../concepts/GUACAMOLE_PROTOCOL.md)
- SFTP Implementation: See [guacr-sftp.md](guacr-sftp.md)
- Zero-Copy: See [docs/concepts/ZERO_COPY.md](../concepts/ZERO_COPY.md)
